.TH "LAPTOP_MODE" "8" 
.SH "NAME" 
.I /usr/sbin/laptop_mode
\- apply laptop mode settings
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.B /usr/sbin/laptop_mode [
.I cmd
.B ] [ force ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
This manual page documents briefly the 
.I /usr/sbin/laptop_mode
command. laptop_mode is a program that applies the settings given in the
.I /etc/laptop-mode/laptop-mode.conf
configuration file. The primary use is to control the laptop mode feature
included in Linux kernels with versions 2.6.6 and higher, and 2.4.23 and higher.
This feature increases battery life by letting your 
hard drive spin down. This is achieved by grouping disk write 
activity into "chunks" that are spaced at larger intervals than 
they normally would be. In addition to supporting the Linux kernel's laptop mode
feature,
.I /usr/sbin/laptop_mode
also supports various power saving modules which are configured through
configuration files in the
.I /etc/laptop-mode/conf.d
directory. 
.PP
It is not recommended to call
.I /usr/sbin/laptop_mode
directly to start or stop laptop mode, except in hardware event handlers. To
apply new configuration settings from \fIlaptop-mode.conf\fP, call the
laptop-mode service init script with the reload parameter.
.SH "COMMANDS" 
Specify \fBforce\fP as the second parameter to force laptop_mode to re-apply
a state even if the computer is already in that state. These are the values that
are allowed for
.I cmd
: 
.IP "\fBauto\fP" 10
Enable or disable laptop mode based on the current power state. Note that
this will not do anything if the laptop-mode service has not been
started!
.IP "\fBstatus\fP" 10
Display a status report about everything that laptop_mode affects.
.IP "\fBhelp\fP" 10
Display this help message
.IP "\fBpower-stats\fP" 10
Display the power statistics on the machine.
.IP "\fBpower-events\fP" 10
Capture power-related events on the machine.
.IP "\fBversion\fP" 10
Display version of Laptop Mode Tools
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
laptop-mode.conf(8).
.SH "AUTHOR" 
This manual page was written by Bart Samwel (bart@samwel.tk) for 
the 
.B Debian
system (but may be used by others).  Permission is 
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
