.TH "LM-PROFILER.CONF" "8" 
.SH "NAME" 
.I /etc/laptop-mode/lm-profiler.conf
\- Configuration file for \fIlm-profiler\fP, a profiler for laptop-mode-tools.
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents the options that can be set in the 
.I /etc/laptop-mode/lm-profiler.conf
configuration file.  For a description of what lm-profiler does, see the
lm-profiler(8) manpage.

.SH "SETTINGS" 
.PP 
The syntax of options is \fBOPTION=value\fP. 

.PP
The following settings are available in \fIlm-profiler.conf\fP: 

.IP "\fBVERBOSE_OUTPUT\fP" 10
Set this to 1 if you want to see a lot of output when you run lm-profiler, 
and 0 if you don't want this. Useful for debugging purposes. (Currently
does nothing.)

.IP "\fBPROFILE_RUN_LENGTH\fP" 10 
The length of a profiling run, in seconds. This should be a while, so that
lm-profiler can gather enough information. The default is 10 minutes (600
seconds).

.IP "\fBACTIVITY_INTERVAL_MIN\fP" 10 
.IP "\fBACTIVITY_INTERVAL_MAX\fP" 10 
The behaviour that you want to avoid when you have your hard
drive spun down, is disk accesses that are spread out over time, because
your hard drive will have to spin up for each access. lm-profiler detects
when applications perform disk accesses that are at least some time apart
(otherwise they can be considered part of the same access) but not TOO
far apart (otherwise they are no problem). These settings configure what
lm-profiler considers "at least some time apart" and "too far apart",
respectively, in seconds.

.IP "\fBRECOMMEND_DEFAULT_SERVICES\fP" 10 
.IP "\fBDEFAULT_SERVICES\fP" 10
If \fBRECOMMEND_DEFAULT_SERVICES\fP is set to 1 (enabled), then lm-profiler will always
suggest turning off the services listed in \fBDEFAULT_SERVICES\fP (separated by
spaces).
 
.IP "\fBIGNORE_PROGRAMS\fP" 10 
Programs listed in this option, separated by spaces, will be ignored for
disk activity profiling. The default settings (which can be referenced
as \fB$DEF_IGNORE_PROGRAMS\fP) include common utility programs and all programs
used by lm-profiler itself.

.IP "\fBRECOMMEND_NETWORK_SERVICES\fP" 10 
When this option is enabled (value 1), lm-profiler will detect any services
that are listening on network ports, and it will suggest that you disable
them.

.IP "\fBIGNORE_NETWORK_SERVICES\fP" 10 
Services listed in this configuration option (separated by spaces) are not
suggested as a network service by lm-profiler. The default values can be
accessed as \fB$DEF_IGNORE_NETWORK_SERVICES\fP.
 

.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
lm-profiler(8).
.PP
laptop_mode(8).
.PP
laptop-mode.conf(8).
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Bart Samwel (bart@samwel.tk). Permission is 
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Tue 09 Nov 2004, 23:14 
