.TH "LM-PROFILER" "8" 
.SH "NAME" 
/usr/sbin/lm-profiler \- laptop mode profiler 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.B /usr/sbin/lm-profiler
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
This manual page documents briefly the 
.B /usr/sbin/lm-profiler
command. 
.B /usr/sbin/lm-profiler
is a tool for profiling disk operations. It is a part of laptop mode tools and
is useful only in relation to rest of laptop mode tools. It helps you to
detect programs and services that use up system resources and that cause
disk activity, and it allows you to disable them when laptop mode is active.

When you start lm-profiler, it will execute a "profiling run", which can
take some time. Start lm-profiler when you are working on batteries,
preferably, because that will allow it to analyze the actual situation that
it is supposed to optimize. During the profiling run, you can use your system
normally; however, any disk activity caused by your actions will end up in
the profiler's results. When the profiling run is finished, you will be
presented with a list of programs that deserve your attention, either because
they listen on a network (which is not usually useful when you are working
offline) or because they caused disk activity in a disk-spindown-unfriendly
pattern. When lm-profiler can guess an init script that belongs to a program,
it presents you with the opportunity to disable the program when you are
working on battery. It does this by placing a link to the init script in
/etc/laptop-mode/batt-stop. Any programs that lm-profiler cannot find an
init script for is simply reported, so that you can stop the
program manually if you want to.

.B WARNING ABOUT DISABLING PROGRAMS:
It may not be safe to disable some programs. They may be needed for proper
operation of your system. Disable services only if you know what they do
and why you don't need them.
.SH "FILES"
.IP "\fB/etc/lm-profiler.conf" 
lm-profiler retrieves its profiling rules from this file.

.SH "SEE ALSO" 
lm-profiler.conf(8) laptop-mode.conf(8) daemons.conf(8). 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
This manual page was written by Bart Samwel (bart@samwel.tk) and
Jan Polacek (jerome@ucw.cz) for the 
.B Debian
system (but may be used by others).  Permission is 
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
