.TH "LM-SYSLOG-SETUP" "8" 
.SH "NAME" 
/usr/sbin/lm-syslog-setup \- configure laptop mode to switch syslog.conf based on power state
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.B /usr/sbin/lm-syslog-setup
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
This manual page documents briefly the 
.B /usr/sbin/lm-syslog-setup
command. 
.B /usr/sbin/lm-syslog-setup
is a command that sets up the necessary things to enable
laptop mode to switch between different syslog.conf files
based on the power state. If your system runs syslogd, you can
simply run this command and you will have three syslog.conf
files, /etc/syslog-on-ac-with-lm.conf (used when AC power is
present and laptop mode is enabled, i.e. LAPTOP_MODE_ALWAYS_ON=1
in laptop-mode.conf), /etc/syslog-on-ac-without-lm.conf (used
when AC power is present and laptop mode is disabled) and
/etc/syslog-on-battery.conf (used when AC power is not present).
If your system does NOT run syslogd but some alternative
logging daemon, you must modify
/etc/laptop-mode/laptop-mode.conf and specify the correct
settings (configuration file name, executable name, etcetera)
for your daemon. Please note that your daemon MUST support the 
SIGHUP signal to re-read its configuration files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
laptop-mode.conf(8).
.PP
laptop_mode(8).
.SH "AUTHOR" 
This manual page was written by Bart Samwel (bart@samwel.tk)
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
